<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
			
<div><h1>CHAPTER SIXTEEN</h1></div>

<p>Eunice woke in the morning with a queer little sense of
disappointment. It was not until she was thoroughly
awake, sitting up in bed and sipping the fragrant tea which
the maid had brought her, that she analysed the cause. Then
she laughed at herself.</p>

<p>“Eunice Weldon,” she said, shaking her head sadly,
“you’re a bold woman! Because the best man in the world
was too good, too silly, or too frightened, to kiss you, you are
working up a grievance. In the first place, Eunice Weldon,
you shouldn’t have proposed to a man. It was unladylike
and certain to lead to your feeling cheap. You should have
been content to wait for the beautiful carpet under your feet
and the mansion over your head, and should have despised the
bare boards of an attic overlooking the railway. I don’t
suppose they are bare boards, Eunice,” she mused. “They
are certain to be very nicely covered and there will be all
sorts of mementos of Jim’s campaigns hanging on the walls
or tucked away in odd little cupboards. And I’m sure, when
the trains are not rattling past, that the view from the window
is beautiful, and, anyway, I shouldn’t have time to look out of
the window. There would be Jim’s shirts to mend, Jim’s socks
to darn, and—Eunice Weldon, get up!” she said hurriedly as
she slipped out of bed.</p>

<p>Going along the corridor Digby Groat heard the sound of
her fresh young voice singing in the bathroom, and he smiled.</p>

<p>The ripe beauty of the girl had come on him with a rush.
She was no longer desirable, she was necessary. He had
intended to make her his plaything, he was as determined
now that she should be his decoration. He laughed aloud
at the little conceit! A decoration! Something that would
enhance him in the eyes of his fellows. Even marriage
would be a small price to pay for the possession of that
jewel.</p>

<p>Jackson saw him smiling as he came down the stairs.</p>

<p>“Another box of chocolates has arrived, sir,” he said in
a low voice, as though he were imparting a shameful secret.</p>

<p>“Throw them in the ashpit, or give them to my mother,”
said Digby carelessly, and Jackson stared at him.</p>

<p>“Aren’t you——” he began.</p>

<p>“Don’t ask so many questions, Jackson.” Digby turned
his glittering eyes upon his servant and there was an ugly
look in his face. “You are getting just a little too interested
in things, my friend. And whilst we are on this matter,
let me say, Jackson, that when you speak to Miss Weldon
I want you to take that damned grin off your face and talk
as a servant to a lady; do you understand that?”</p>

<p>“I’m no servant,” said the man sullenly.</p>

<p>“That is the part you are playing now, so play it,” said
Digby, “and don’t sulk with me, or——”</p>

<p>His hand went up to a rack hanging on the wall, where
reposed a collection of hunting-crops, and his fingers closed
over the nearest.</p>

<p>The man started back.</p>

<p>“I didn’t mean anything,” he whined, his face livid. “I’ve
tried to be respectful——”</p>

<p>“Get my letters,” said Digby curtly, “and bring them
into the dining-room.”</p>

<p>Eunice came into the room at that moment.</p>

<p>“Good morning. Miss Weldon,” said Digby, pulling out
her chair from the table. “Did you have a nice dinner?”</p>

<p>“Oh, splendid,” she said, and then changed the conversation.</p>

<p>She was dreading the possibility of his turning the conversation
to the previous night, and was glad when the meal was
finished.</p>

<p>Digby’s attitude, however, was most correct. He spoke
of general topics, and did not touch upon her outing, and
when she went to Mrs. Groat’s room to play at work, for it
was only playing, the real work had been done, he did not,
as she feared he might, follow her.</p>

<p>Digby waited until the doctor called, and waylaying him
in the passage learnt that his mother had completely recovered,
and though a recurrence of the stroke was possible, it was
not immediately likely. He had a few words to say to her
that morning.</p>

<p>Old Mrs. Groat sat by the window in a wheeled chair, a
huddled, unlovely figure, her dark gloomy eyes surveyed
without interest the stately square with its green leafy centrepiece.
The change of seasons had for her no other significance
than a change of clothing. The wild heart which once
leapt to the call of spring, beat feebly in a body in which
passion had burnt itself to bitter ashes. And yet the gnarled
hands, crossing and re-crossing each other on her lap, had
once touched and blessed as they had touched and blasted.</p>

<p>Once or twice her mind went to this new girl, Eunice Weldon.
There was no ray of pity in her thought. If Digby wanted
the girl, he would take her, and her fate interested old Jane
Groat no more than the fate of the fly that buzzed upon the
window, and whom a flick of her handkerchief presently swept
from existence. There was more reason why the girl should
go if .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. she frowned. The scar on the wrist was much
bigger than a sixpence. It was probably a coincidence.</p>

<p>She hoped that Digby would concentrate on his new quest
and leave her alone. She was mortally afraid of him, fearing
in her own heart the length to which he would go to have
his will. She knew that her life would be snuffed out, like
the flame of a candle, if it were expedient for Digby to remove
her. When she had recovered consciousness and found herself
in charge of a nurse, her first thought had been of wonder
that Digby had allowed her to revive. He knew nothing
of the will, she thought, and a twisted smile broke upon the
lined face. There was a surprise in store for him. She would
not be there to see it, that was the pity. But she could gloat
in anticipation over his chagrin and his impotent rage.</p>

<p>The handle of the door turned and there followed a whispered
conversation. Presently the door closed again.</p>

<p>“How are you this morning, mother?” said the pleasant
voice of Digby, and she blinked round at him in a flutter of
agitation.</p>

<p>“Very well, my boy, very well,” she said tremulously.
“Won’t you sit down?” She glanced nervously about for
the nurse, but the woman had gone. “Will you tell the
nurse I want her, my boy?” she began.</p>

<p>“The nurse can wait,” said her dutiful son coolly. “There
are one or two things I want to talk to you about before she
returns. But principally I want to know why you executed
a will in favour of Estremeda and left me with a beggarly
twenty thousand pounds to face the world?”</p>

<p>She nearly collapsed with the shock.</p>

<p>“A will, my boy?” She whined the words. “What on
earth are you talking about?”</p>

<p>“The will which you made and put into that secret drawer
of your cabinet,” he said patiently, “and don’t tell me that
I’m dreaming, or that you did it for a joke, or that it was
an act of mental aberration on your part. Tell me the
truth!”</p>

<p>“It was a will I made years ago, my dear,” she quavered.
“When I thought twenty thousand pounds was all the
money I possessed.”</p>

<p>“You’re a liar,” said Digby without heat. “And a stupid
old liar. You made that will to spite me, you old devil!”</p>

<p>She was staring at him in horror.</p>

<p>Digby was most dangerous when he talked in that cool,
even tone of his.</p>

<p>“I have destroyed the precious document,” said Digby
Groat in the same conversational voice, “and when you see
Miss Weldon, who witnessed its destruction, I would be
glad if you would tell her that the will she saw consumed was
one which you made when you were not quite right in your
head.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Groat was incapable of speech. Her chin trembled
convulsively and her only thought was how she could attract
the attention of the nurse.</p>

<p>“Put my chair back against the bed, Digby,” she said
faintly. “The light is too strong.”</p>

<p>He hesitated, but did as she asked, then seeing her hand
close upon the bell-push which hung by the side of the bed,
he laughed.</p>

<p>“You need not be afraid, mother,” he said contemptuously,
“I did not intend taking any other action than I have already
taken. Remember that your infernal nurse will not be here
all the time, and do as I ask you. I will send Miss Weldon
up to you in a few minutes on the excuse of taking instructions
from you and answering some letters which came for you this
morning. Do you understand?”</p>

<p>She nodded, and at that moment the nurse came in.</p>

<p>Summoned to the sick-room, Eunice found her employer
looking more feeble than she had appeared before she was
stricken down. The old woman’s eyes smouldered their hate,
as the girl came into the room. She guessed it was Eunice
who had discovered the will and loathed her, but fear was
the greater in her, and after the few letters had been formally
answered, Mrs. Groat stopped the girl, who was in the act of
rising.</p>

<p>“Sit down again, Miss Weldon,” she said. “I wanted
to tell you about a will of mine that you found. I’m very
glad you discovered it. I had forgotten that I had made it.”</p>

<p>Every word was strained and hateful to utter.</p>

<p>“You see, my dear young woman, I sometimes suffer
from a curious lapse of memory, and—and—that will was
made when I was suffering from an attack——”</p>

<p>Eunice listened to the halting words and was under the
impression that the hesitation was due to the old woman’s
weakness.</p>

<p>“I quite understand, Mrs. Groat,” she said sympathetically.
“Your son told me.”</p>

<p>“He told you, did he?” said Jane Groat, returning to her
contemplation of the window; then, when Eunice was
waiting for her dismissal, “Are you a great friend of my
son’s?”</p>

<p>Eunice smiled.</p>

<p>“No, not a great friend, Mrs. Groat,” she said.</p>

<p>“You will be,” said the woman, “greater than you
imagine,” and there was such malignity in the tone that the
girl shuddered.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
