<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
			
<div><h1>CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR</h1></div>

<p>“Jim!”</p>

<p>Eunice came running across the grass with outstretched
hands, oblivious to the fact that it was broad daylight
and that she was being watched by at least a hundred
idle loungers in the park.</p>

<p>Jim took both her hands in his and she experienced
a moment of serene comfort. Then they both talked at
once; they were both apologetic, interrupting one another’s
explanations with the expression of their own contrition.</p>

<p>“Jim, I’m going to leave Mrs. Groat’s house,” she said
when they had reached sanity.</p>

<p>“Thank God for that,” said Jim.</p>

<p>“You are so solemn about it,” she laughed. “Did you
really think I was in any danger there?”</p>

<p>“I know you were,” he said.</p>

<p>She had so much to tell him that she did not know where
to begin.</p>

<p>“Were you sorry not to see me?”</p>

<p>“The days I have not seen you are dead, and wiped off
the calendar,” said Jim.</p>

<p>“Oh, before I forget,” said Eunice, “Mrs. Weatherwale
has gone.”</p>

<p>“Mrs. Weatherwale!” he repeated, puzzled.</p>

<p>“I haven’t told you? No, of course not. I did not see
you yesterday. But Mrs. Groat asked me to write to Mrs.
Weatherwale, who is an old friend of hers, asking her to
come and stay. I think Mrs. Groat is rather afraid of
Digby.”</p>

<p>“And she came?” asked Jim.</p>

<p>The girl nodded.</p>

<p>“She came and stayed about one hour, then arrived my
lord Digby, who bundled her unceremoniously into the street.
There is no love lost there, either, Jim. The dear old lady
hated him. She was a charming old soul and called me
‘darling.’ ”</p>

<p>“Who wouldn’t?” said Jim. “I can call you darling
even though I am not a charming old soul. Go on. So she
went away? I wonder what she knows about Digby?”</p>

<p>“She knows everything. She knows about Estremeda, of
that I am sure. Jim, doesn’t that make a difference?”</p>

<p>He shook his head.</p>

<p>“If you mean does it make any difference about Digby
inheriting his mother’s money when she gets it, I can tell you
that it makes none. The will does not specify that he is the
son of John Groat, and the fact that he was born before she
married this unfortunate shipping clerk does not affect the
issue.”</p>

<p>“When is the money to be made over to the Groats?”</p>

<p>“Next Thursday,” said Jim, with a groan, “and I am
just as far from stopping the transfer of the property as I
have ever been.”</p>

<p>He had not told her of his meeting with Lady Mary Danton.
That was not his secret alone. Nor could he tell her
that Lady Mary was the woman who had warned her.</p>

<p>They strolled across the Park towards the Serpentine and
Jim was unusually preoccupied.</p>

<p>“Do you know, Eunice, that I have an uncanny feeling
that you really are in some way associated with the Danton
fortune?”</p>

<p>She laughed and clung tighter to his arm.</p>

<p>“Jim, you would make me Queen of England if you could,”
she said, “and you have just as much chance of raising me
to the throne as you have of proving that I am somebody
else’s child. I don’t want to be anybody else’s, really,” she
said. “I was very, very fond of my mother, and it nearly
broke my heart when she died. And daddy was a darling.”</p>

<p>He nodded.</p>

<p>“Of course, it is a fantastic idea,” he said, “and I am
flying in face of all the facts. I have taken the trouble to
discover where you were born. I have a friend in Cape Town
who made the inquiries for me.”</p>

<p>“Eunice May Weldon,” she laughed. “So you can abandon
that idea, can’t you?” she said.</p>

<p>Strolling along by the side of the Serpentine, they had
reached the bridge near the magazine and were standing
waiting until a car had passed before they crossed the road.
Somebody in the car raised his hat.</p>

<p>“Who was that?” said Jim.</p>

<p>“Digby Groat,” she smiled, “my nearly late employer!
Don’t let us go to the tea-shop, Jim,” she said; “let us go
to your flat—I’d love to.”</p>

<p>He looked at her dubiously.</p>

<p>“It is not customary for bachelors to give tea-parties to
young females,” he said.</p>

<p>“I’m sure it is”—she waived aside his objection. “I’m
perfectly certain it happens every day, only they don’t speak
about it.”</p>

<p>The flat delighted her and she took off her coat and busied
herself in the little kitchenette.</p>

<p>“You told me it was an attic with bare boards,” she said
reproachfully as she was laying the cloth.</p>

<p>To Jim, stretched in his big chair, she was a thing of sheer
delight. He wanted no more than to sit for ever and watch
her flitting from room to room. The sound of her fresh voice
was a delicious narcotic, and even when she called him, as
she did, again and again, to explain some curio of his which
hung in the hall, the spell was not broken.</p>

<p>“Everything is speckless,” she said as she brought in the
tea, “and I’m sure you haven’t polished up those brasses
and cleaned that china.”</p>

<p>“You’re right first time,” said Jim lazily. “An unprepossessing
lady comes in every morning at half-past seven
and works her fingers to the bone, as she has told me more
times than once, though she manages to keep more flesh on
those bones than seems comfortable for her.”</p>

<p>“And there is your famous train,” she said, jumping up
and going to the window as an express whizzed down the
declivity. “Oh, Jim, look at those boys,” she gasped in
horror.</p>

<p>Across the line and supported by two stout poles, one of
which stood in the courtyard of the flat, was a stretch of thin
telegraph wires, and on these a small and adventurous urchin
was pulling himself across hand-over-hand, to the joy of his
companions seated on the opposite wall of the cutting.</p>

<p>“The young devil,” said Jim admiringly.</p>

<p>Another train shrieked past, and running down into Euston
trains moved at a good speed. The telegraph wire had
sagged under the weight of the boy to such an extent that he
had to lift up his legs to avoid touching the tops of the
carriages.</p>

<p>“If the police catch him,” mused Jim, “they will fine
him a sovereign and give him a birching. In reality he ought
to be given a medal. These little beggars are the soldiers
of the future, Eunice, and some day he will reproduce that
fearlessness of danger, and he will earn the Victoria Cross a
jolly sight more than I earned it.”</p>

<p>She laughed and dropped her head against his shoulder.</p>

<p>“You queer man,” she said, and then returned to the
contemplation of the young climber, who had now reached
the opposite wall amidst the approving yells and shouts of
his diminutive comrades.</p>

<p>“Now let us drink our tea, because I must get back,”
said the girl.</p>

<p>The cup was to her lips when the door opened and a woman
came in. Eunice did not hear the turning of the handle, and
her first intimation of the stranger’s presence was the word
“Jim.” She looked up. The woman in the doorway was,
by all standards, beautiful, she noticed with a pang. Age
had not lined or marred the beauty of her face and the strands
of grey in her hair added to her attraction. For a moment
they looked at one another, the woman and the girl, and then
the intruder, with a nod and a smile, said:</p>

<p>“I will see you again. I am sorry,” and went out closing
the door behind her.</p>

<p>The silence that followed was painful. Jim started three
times to speak, but stopped as he realized the futility of
explaining to the girl the reason of the woman’s presence.
He could not tell her she was Lady Mary Danton.</p>

<p>“She called you ‘Jim,’ ” said the girl slowly. “Is she a
friend of yours?”</p>

<p>“Er—yes,” he replied awkwardly. “She is Mrs. Fane, a
neighbour.”</p>

<p>“Mrs. Fane,” repeated the girl, “but you told me she was
paralysed and could not get up. You said she had never
been out of doors for years.”</p>

<p>Jim swallowed something.</p>

<p>“She called you ‘Jim,’ ” said the girl again. “Are you
very great friends?”</p>

<p>“Well, we are rather,” said Jim huskily. “The fact is,
Eunice——”</p>

<p>“How did she come in?” asked the girl with a frown.
“She must have let herself in with a key. Has she a key of
your flat?”</p>

<p>Jim gulped.</p>

<p>“Well, as a matter of fact——” he began.</p>

<p>“Has she, Jim?”</p>

<p>“Yes, she has. I can’t explain, Eunice, but you’ve
got——”</p>

<p>“I see,” she said quietly. “She is very pretty, isn’t she?”</p>

<p>“Yes, she is rather pretty,” admitted Jim miserably.
“You see, we have business transactions together, and frequently
I am out and she wants to get to my telephone. She
has no telephone in her own flat, you see, Eunice,” he went
on lamely.</p>

<p>“I see,” said the girl, “and she calls you ‘Jim’?”</p>

<p>“Because we are good friends,” he floundered. “Really,
Eunice, I hope you are not putting any misconstruction upon
that incident.”</p>

<p>She heaved a little sigh.</p>

<p>“I suppose it is all right, Jim,” she said, and pushed away
her plate. “I don’t think I’ll wait any longer. Please don’t
come back with me, I’d rather you didn’t. I can get a cab;
there’s a rank opposite the flat, I remember.”</p>

<p>Jim cursed the accident which had brought the lady into
his room at that moment and cursed himself that he had not
made a clean breast of the whole thing, even at the risk of
betraying Lady Mary.</p>

<p>He had done sufficient harm by his incoherent explanation
and he offered no other as he helped the girl into her coat.</p>

<p>“You are sure you’d rather go alone?” he said miserably.</p>

<p>She nodded.</p>

<p>They were standing on the landing. Lady Mary’s front
door was ajar and from within came the shrill ring of a telephone
bell. She raised her grave eyes to Jim.</p>

<p>“Your friend has the key of your flat because she has no
telephone of her own, didn’t you say, Jim?”</p>

<p>He made no reply.</p>

<p>“I never thought you would lie to me,” she said, and he
watched her disappear down the staircase with an aching
heart.</p>

<p>He had hardly reached his room and flung himself in his
chair by the side of the tea-table, when Lady Mary followed
him into the room.</p>

<p>“I’m sorry,” she said, “I hadn’t the slightest idea she
would be here.”</p>

<p>“It doesn’t matter,” said Jim with a wan smile, “only it
makes things rather awkward for me. I told her a lie and
she found me out, or rather, your infernal telephone did,
Lady Mary.”</p>

<p>“Then you were stupid,” was all the comfort she gave
him.</p>

<p>“Why didn’t you stay?” he asked. “That made it look
so queer.”</p>

<p>“There were many reasons why I couldn’t stay,” said
Lady Mary. “Jim, do you remember the inquiries I made
about this very girl, Eunice Weldon, and which you made
too?”</p>

<p>He nodded.</p>

<p>He wasn’t interested in Eunice Weldon’s obvious parentage
at that moment.</p>

<p>“You remember she was born at Rondebosch?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” he said listlessly. “Even she admits it,” he added
with a feeble attempt at a jest.</p>

<p>“Does she admit this?” asked Lady Mary. She pushed
a telegram across the table to Jim, and he picked it up and
read:</p>

<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">

<p>“Eunice May Weldon died in Cape Town at the age
of twelve months and three days, and is buried at Rosebank
Cemetery. Plot No. 7963.”</p>

</blockquote>

<div><h1>CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE</h1></div>

<p>Jim read the cablegram again, scarcely believing his eyes
or his understanding.</p>

<p>“Buried at the age of twelve months,” he said incredulously,
“but how absurd. She is here, alive, besides which,
I recently met a man who knew the Weldons and remembered
Eunice as a child. There is no question of substitution.”</p>

<p>“It is puzzling, isn’t it?” said Lady Mary softly, as she
put the telegram in her bag. “But here is a very important
fact. The man who sent me this cablegram is one of the
most reliable private detectives in South Africa.”</p>

<p>Eunice Weldon was born, Eunice Weldon had died, and
yet Eunice Weldon was very much alive at that moment,
though she was wishing she were dead.</p>

<p>Jim leant his elbow on the table and rested his chin on his
palm.</p>

<p>“I must confess that I am now completely rattled,” he
said. “Then if the girl died, it is obvious the parents adopted
another girl and that girl was Eunice. The question is, where
did she come from, because there was never any question of
her adoption, so far as she knew.”</p>

<p>She nodded.</p>

<p>“I have already cabled to my agent to ask him to inquire
on this question of adoption,” she said, “and in the meantime
the old idea is gaining ground, Jim.”</p>

<p>His eyes met hers.</p>

<p>“You mean that Eunice is your daughter?”</p>

<p>She nodded slowly.</p>

<p>“That circular scar on her wrist? You know nothing
about it?”</p>

<p>She shook her head.</p>

<p>“It may have been done after”—she faltered—“after—I
lost sight of her.”</p>

<p>“Lady Mary, will you explain how you came to lose sight
of her?” asked Jim.</p>

<p>She shook her head.</p>

<p>“Not yet,” she said.</p>

<p>“Then perhaps you will answer another question. You
know Mrs. Groat?”</p>

<p>She nodded.</p>

<p>“Do you know a woman named Weatherwale?”</p>

<p>Lady Mary’s eyes opened.</p>

<p>“Mary Weatherwale, yes. She was a farmer’s daughter
who was very fond of Jane, a nice, decent woman. I often
wondered how Jane came to make such a friend. Why do
you ask?”</p>

<p>Jim told her what had happened when Mrs. Weatherwale
had arrived at Grosvenor Square.</p>

<p>“Let us put as many of our cards on the table as are not
too stale to exhibit,” she said. “Do you believe that Jane
Groat had some part in the disappearance of my daughter?”</p>

<p>“Honestly I do,” said Jim. “Don’t you?”</p>

<p>She shook her head.</p>

<p>“I used to think so,” she said quietly, “but when I made
inquiries, she was exonerated beyond question. She is a
wicked woman, as wicked as any that has ever been born,”
she said with a sudden fire that sent the colour flying to her
face, “but she was not so wicked that she was responsible
for little Dorothy’s fate.”</p>

<p>“You will not tell me any more about her?”</p>

<p>She shook her head.</p>

<p>“There is something you could say which might make my
investigations a little easier,” said Jim.</p>

<p>“There is nothing I can say—yet,” she said in a low voice,
as she rose and, without a word of farewell, glided from the
room.</p>

<p>Jim’s mind was made up. In the light of that extraordinary
cablegram from South Africa, his misunderstanding with
Eunice faded into insignificance. If she were Lady Mary’s
daughter! He gasped at the thought which, with all its
consequences, came as a new possibility, even though he had
pondered it in his mind.</p>

<p>He fixed upon Jane Groat as one who could supply the
key of the mystery, but every attempt he had made to get
the particulars of her past had been frustrated by ignorance,
or the unwillingness of all who had known her in her early
days.</p>

<p>There was little chance of seeing Septimus Salter in his
office, so he went round to the garage where he housed his
little car, and set forth on a voyage of discovery to Chislehurst,
where Mr. Salter lived.</p>

<p>The old gentleman was alone; his wife and his eldest son,
an officer, who was staying with him, had gone to Harrogate,
and he was more genial in his reception than Jim had a right
to expect.</p>

<p>“You’ll stay to dinner, of course,” he said.</p>

<p>Jim shook his head.</p>

<p>“No thank you, sir, I’m feeling rather anxious just now.
I came to ask you if you knew Mrs. Weatherwale.”</p>

<p>The lawyer frowned.</p>

<p>“Weatherwale, Weatherwale,” he mused, “yes, I remember
the name. I seldom forget a name. She appears in
Mrs. Groat’s will, I think, as a legatee for a few hundred pounds.
Her father was one of old Danton’s tenants.”</p>

<p>“That is the woman,” said Jim, and told his employer all
that he had learnt about Mrs. Weatherwale’s ill-fated visit
to London.</p>

<p>“It only shows,” said the lawyer when he had finished,
“how the terrific secrets which we lawyers think are locked
away in steel boxes and stowed below the ground in musty
cellars, are the property of Tom, Dick and Harry! We
might as well save ourselves all the trouble. Estremeda is,
of course, the Spanish Marquis who practically lived with
the Dantons when Jane was a young woman. He is, as
obviously, the father of Digby Groat, and the result of this
woman’s mad passion for the Spaniard. I knew there was
some sort of scandal attached to her name, but this explains
why her father would never speak to her, and why he cut
her out of his will. I’m quite sure that Jonathan Danton
knew nothing whatever about his sister’s escapade, or he
would not have left her his money. He was as straitlaced as
any of the Dantons, but, thanks to his father’s reticence, it
would seem that Mrs. Groat is going to benefit.”</p>

<p>“And the son?” said Jim, and the lawyer nodded.</p>

<p>“She may leave her money where she wishes—to anybody’s
son, for the matter of that,” said the lawyer. “A curious
case, a very curious case”—he shook his grey head. “What
do you intend doing?”</p>

<p>“I am going down to Somerset to see Mrs. Weatherwale,”
said Jim. “She may give us a string which will lead somewhere.”</p>

<p>“If she’ll give you a string that will lead Mr. Digby Groat
to prison,” growled the old lawyer, “get hold of it, Steele,
and pull like the devil!”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
