<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-47" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVII</h2>
			<p>She had heard the tap of her first visitor at one o’clock in the morning. It had come when Digby Groat was sitting in his cabin turning over the possibilities of misfortune which the future held, and she had thought it was he.</p>
			<p>The handle of the door turned and it opened an inch; beyond that it could not go without a crash, for the chairs and tables that Eunice had piled against it. She watched with a stony face and despair in her heart, as the opening of the door increased.</p>
			<p>“Please do not be afraid,” said a voice.</p>
			<p>Then it was not Digby! She sprang to her feet. It might be some one worse, but that was impossible.</p>
			<p>“Who is it?” she asked.</p>
			<p>“It is I, the captain,” said a voice in laboured English.</p>
			<p>“What is it you want?”</p>
			<p>“I wish to speak to you, mademoiselle, but you must put away these things from behind the door, otherwise I will call two of my sailors, and it will be a simple matter to push them aside.”</p>
			<p>Already he had prized open the door to the extent of two or three inches, and with a groan Eunice realized the futility of her barricade. She dragged the furniture aside and the little captain came in smiling, hat in hand, closing the door after him.</p>
			<p>“Permit me, mademoiselle,” he said politely, and moved her aside while he replaced the furniture; then he opened the door and looked out, and Eunice saw that there was a tall sailor standing with his back to her, evidently on guard. What did this mean, she wondered? The captain did not leave her long in ignorance.</p>
			<p>“Lady,” he said in an accent which it was almost impossible to reproduce, “I am a poor sailor-man who works at his hazardous calling for two hundred miserable milreis a month. But because I am poor, and of humble⁠—” he hesitated and used the Portuguese word for origin⁠—which she guessed at⁠—“it does not mean that I am without a heart.” He struck his breast violently. “I have a <i xml:lang="la">repugnancio</i> to hurting female women!”</p>
			<p>She was wondering what was coming next: would he offer to sell his master at a price? If he did, she would gladly agree, but the new hope which surged up within her was dissipated by his next words.</p>
			<p>“My friend Groat,” he said, “is my master. I must obey his orders, and if he says ‘Go to Callio,’ or to Rio de Janeiro, I must go.”</p>
			<p>Her hopes sunk, but evidently he had something more to say.</p>
			<p>“As the captain I must do as I am told,” he said, “but I cannot and will not see a female hurted. You understand?”</p>
			<p>She nodded, and the spark of hope kindled afresh.</p>
			<p>“I myself cannot be here all the time, nor can my inconquerable sailors, to see that you are not hurted, and it would look bad for me if you were hurted⁠—very bad!”</p>
			<p>Evidently the worthy captain was taking a very farsighted view of the situation, and had hit upon a compromise which relieved him at least of his responsibility toward his master.</p>
			<p>“If the young lady will take this, remembering that José Montigano was the good friend of hers, I shall be repaid.”</p>
			<p>“This” was a silvery weapon. She took the weapon in her hand with a glad cry.</p>
			<p>“Oh, thank you, thank you, captain,” she said, seizing his hand.</p>
			<p>“Remember,” he raised a warning finger. “I cannot do more. I speak now as man to woman. Presently I speak as captain to owner. You understand the remarkable difference?”</p>
			<p>He confused her a little, but she could guess what he meant.</p>
			<p>He bowed and made his exit, but presently he returned.</p>
			<p>“To put the chairs and tables against the door is no use,” he said, shaking his head. “It is better⁠—” He pointed significantly to the revolver, and with a broad grin closed the door behind him.</p>
			<p>Digby Groat knew nothing of this visit: it satisfied him that the sentry had been withdrawn, and that now nothing stood between him and the woman whom, in his distorted, evil way, he loved, but her own frail strength. He tapped again. It pleased him to observe these threadbare conventions for the time being, yet when no answer came to his knock, he opened the door slowly and walked in.</p>
			<p>Eunice was standing at the far end of the cabin; the silken curtains had been drawn aside, and the door leading to her sitting saloon was open. Her hands were behind her and she was fully dressed.</p>
			<p>“My dear,” said Digby, in his most expansive manner, “why are you tiring your pretty eyes? You should have been in bed and asleep.”</p>
			<p>“What do you want?” she demanded.</p>
			<p>“What else could a man want, who had such a beautiful wife, but the pleasure of her conversation and companionship,” he said with an air of gaiety.</p>
			<p>“Stand where you are,” she called sharply as he advanced, and the authority in her tone made him halt.</p>
			<p>“Now, Eunice,” he said, shaking his head, “you are making a lot of trouble when trouble is foolish. You have only to be sensible, and there is nothing in the world that I will not give you.”</p>
			<p>“There is nothing in the world that you have to give, except the money which you have stolen from me,” she said calmly. “Why do you talk of giving, when I am the giver, and there is nothing for you to take but my mercy?”</p>
			<p>He stared at her, stricken dumb by the coolness at the moment of her most deadly danger, and then with a laugh he recovered his self-possession and strolled towards her, his dark eyes aflame.</p>
			<p>“Stand where you are,” said Eunice again, and this time she had the means to enforce her command.</p>
			<p>Digby could only stare at the muzzle of the pistol pointed towards his heart, and then he shrank back.</p>
			<p>“Put that thing away!” he said harshly. “Damn you, put it away! You are not used to fire-arms, and it may explode.”</p>
			<p>“It will explode,” said Eunice. Her voice was deep and intense, and all the resentment she had smothered poured forth in her words. “I tell you, Digby Groat, that I will shoot you like a dog, and glory in the act. Shoot you more mercilessly than you killed that poor Spaniard, and look upon your body with less horror than you showed.”</p>
			<p>“Put it away, put it away! Where did you get it?” he cried. “For God’s sake, Eunice, don’t fool with that pistol; you don’t want to kill me, do you?”</p>
			<p>“There are times when I want to kill you very badly,” she said, and lowered the point of the revolver at the sight of the man’s abject cowardice.</p>
			<p>He wiped his forehead with a silk handkerchief, and she could see his knees trembling.</p>
			<p>“Who gave you that pistol?” he demanded violently. “You didn’t have it when you left Kennett Hall, that I’ll swear. Where did you find it? In one of those drawers?” He looked at the bureau, one of the drawers of which was half open.</p>
			<p>“Does it matter?” she asked. “Now, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Groat, you will please go out of my cabin and leave me in peace.”</p>
			<p>“I had no intention of hurting you,” he growled. He was still very pale. “There was no need for you to flourish your revolver so melodramatically. I only came in to say good night.”</p>
			<p>“You might have come about six hours earlier,” she said. “Now go.”</p>
			<p>“Listen to me, Eunice,” said Digby Groat; he edged forward, but her pistol covered him, and he jumped. “If you’re going to play the fool, I’ll go,” he said, and followed the action by the deed, slamming the door behind him.</p>
			<p>She heard the outer door open and close, and leant against the brass column of the bed for support, for she was near to the end of her courage. She must sleep, she thought, but first she must secure the outer door. There was a lock on the lobby door; she had not noticed that before. She had hardly taken two steps through the cabin door before an arm was flung round her, she was pressed back, and a hand gripped the wrist which still carried the weapon. With a wrench he flung it to the floor, and in another moment she was in his arms.</p>
			<p>“You thought I’d gone”⁠—he lifted her, still struggling, and carried her back to the saloon. “I want to see you,” he breathed; “to see your face, your glorious eyes, that wonderful mouth of yours, Eunice.” He pressed his lips against hers; he smothered with kisses her cheeks, her neck, her eyes.</p>
			<p>She felt herself slipping from consciousness; the very horror of his caresses froze and paralysed her will to struggle. She could only gaze at the eyes so close to hers, fascinated as by the glare of the deadly snake.</p>
			<p>“You are mine now, mine, do you hear?” he murmured into her ear. “You will forget Jim Steele, forget everything except that I adore you,” and then he saw her wild gaze pass him to the door, and turned.</p>
			<p>The little captain stood there, his hands on his hips, watching, his brown face a mask.</p>
			<p>Digby released his hold of the girl, and turned on the sailor.</p>
			<p>“What the hell are you doing here? Get out,” he almost screamed.</p>
			<p>“There is an aeroplane looking for us,” said the captain. “We have just picked up her wireless.”</p>
			<p>Digby’s jaw dropped. That possibility had not occurred to him.</p>
			<p>“Who is she? What does the wireless say?”</p>
			<p>“It is a message we picked up saying, ‘Nothing sighted. Am heading due south.’ It gave her position,” added the captain, “and if she is coming due south I think <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Steele will find us.”</p>
			<p>Digby fell back a pace, his face blanched.</p>
			<p>“Steele,” he gasped.</p>
			<p>The captain nodded.</p>
			<p>“That is the gentleman who signs the message. I think it would be advisable for you to come on deck.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll come on deck when I want,” growled Digby. There was a devil in him now. He was at the end of his course, and he was not to be thwarted.</p>
			<p>“Will the good gentleman come on deck?”</p>
			<p>“I will come later. I have some business to attend to here.”</p>
			<p>“You can attend to it on deck,” said the little captain calmly.</p>
			<p>“Get out,” shouted Digby.</p>
			<p>The captain’s hand did not seem to move; there was a shot, the deafening explosion of which filled the cabin, and a panel behind Digby’s head splintered into a thousand pieces.</p>
			<p>He glared at the revolver in the Brazilian’s hand, unable to realize what had happened.</p>
			<p>“I could have shot you just as easily,” said the Brazilian calmly, “but I preferred to send the little bullet near your ear. Will you come on deck, please?”</p>
			<p>Digby Groat obeyed.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
